Community container docs (#100)
greenbone/docs: src/21.04/container/index.md

and report formats.

```{code-block} shell
---
caption: Syncing data objects processed by gvmd
---
docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition \
    exec -u gvmd gvmd greenbone-feed-sync --type GVMD_DATA
```

## Setting up an Admin User

```{warning}
By default a user *admin* with the password *admin* is created. This is insecure
and it is highly recommended to set a new password.
```

To create the administrator user with a password of your choice instead of the
generated password, the following command can be used:

```{code-block} shell
---
caption: Creating an administrator user with provided password
---
docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition \
    exec -u gvmd gvmd gvmd --create-user=admin --password=<password>
```
## Starting the Vulnerability Management

After the services have started and all data has been loaded, the {term}`Greenbone
Security Assistant web interface – GSA –<GSA>` can be opened in the browser.

```{code-block} shell
---
caption: Opening Greenbone Security Assistant in the browser
---
xdg-open "http://127.0.0.1:9392" 2>/dev/null >/dev/null &
```

> The browser will show the login page of *GSA* and after using the credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The browser will show the login page of GSA and after using the credentials
```

> created before, it is possible to start with the vulnerability scanning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
created before, it is possible to start with vulnerability scanning.
```

```{figure} /images/GSA.png
---
alt: Launching Greenbone Security Assistant for the first time
---
Greenbone Security Assistant after logging in for the first time
```

## Troubleshooting

> ### VTs are up to date but are not visible in UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### VTs are Up-to-Date but Not Visible on the Web Interface
```

> It may be possible especially for the initial synchronization that the scanner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may be possible, especially for the initial synchronization, that the scanner
```

> doesn't notice new VT files have arrived. Therefore it is best to restart the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not notice new VT files have arrived. Therefore, it is best to restart the
```

scanner.

```{code-block} shell
---
caption: Restart the scanner to ensure that new {term}`VTs<VT>` are loaded
---
docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition \
    restart ospd-openvas
```

> ### Port List, Scan Configs, Report Formats are up to date but not visible in UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Port List, Scan Configurations, Report Formats are Up-to-Date but Not Visible on the Web Interface
```

> If port lists, scan configs or report formats are missing in the web UI, you may run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If port lists, scan configurations or report formats are missing on the web interface, you may run
```

```{code-block} shell
---
caption: Force reload of report formats, scan configs and port lists
---
docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition \
    exec -u gvmd gvmd gvmd --rebuild-gvmd-data=all
```

> to force `gvmd` to reload these data from the file system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to force `gvmd` to reload the data from the file system.
```

### Update the Greenbone Community Containers

> To update the Greenbone Community Containers to the latest version it is required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update the Greenbone Community Containers to the latest version, it is required
```

to pull the images and restart the containers which have new images. This can
be done with

```{code-block} shell
---
caption: Downloading the Greenbone Community Containers
---
docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition pull
```

```{code-block} shell
---
caption: Starting the Greenbone Community Containers
---
docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition up -d
```

> ### Can't login into Web Interface: *Greenbone Vulnerability Manager service is not responding*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Cannot Log in to the Web Interface: *Greenbone Vulnerability Manager service is not responding*
```

> If it is not possible to login into the web interface and the following error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it is not possible to log in to the web interface and the following error
```

message is shown

```{image} gvmd-not-responding.png
---
alt: gvmd not responding
width: 200px
align: center
---
```

and/or the logs contain a `Failed to connect to server at /run/gvmd/gvmd.sock: Connection refused`

> message the {term}`gvmd` container needs to be restarted. It is very likely it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
message, the {term}`gvmd` container must be restarted. It is very likely it
```

had some issues accessing the PostgreSQL database.

```{code-block} shell
---
caption: Restart {term}`gvmd`
---
docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition \
    restart gvmd
```

### Starting from Scratch

> To start from scratch the containers need to be stopped. Afterwards the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start from scratch, the containers must be stopped. Afterwards, the
```

containers and volumes must be removed to delete all data. All this can be done
by running

```{code-block} shell
---
caption: Remove containers and volumes (all data)
---
docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition down -v
```

> ###  Gain a terminal for a container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###  Gain a Terminal for a Container
```

If you want to debug something in a container, install additional software, take

> a look at the file content or change some configuration it is possible to gain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a look at the file content, or change some configuration, it is possible to gain
```

shell access to a container.

> To access a container with a bash shell as a root user you can run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access a container with a bash shell as a root user, you can run
```

```{code-block} shell
---
caption: Remove containers and volumes (all data)
---
docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition exec <container-name> /bin/bash
```

> Afterwards you can execute standard bash commands within the running container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterwards, you can execute standard bash commands within the running container.
```
